Hollowed Out: Cultural Appropriation and Appreciation in Get Out
The popular culture of a country is often its chief cultural export, with American media representing a large part of its international image. However, a closer analysis of this media reveals inaccuracies, racial stereotypes and socio-political fault lines. In her 1992 essay, Black feminist scholar bell hooks explores the operations of race in popular culture through a form of cultural appropriation that she calls “Eating the Other,” where the Other refers to non-White racial minorities. Contemporary horror films such as Jordan Peele’s Get Out (2017) continue these discussions on racism and appropriation in the Obama and Trump eras. This essay examines consumption of the Other by using hooks’ theoretical concepts in “Eating the Other” and Peele’s depiction of liberal white racism in Get Out. In Get Out, Peele displays how Blackness is appropriated by white supremacy through stereotypes of the sexualized primitive; moreover, this process hollows out Black life which allows for white domination. However, the film also offers resistance to such domination through the subversion of these stereotypes and reliance upon Black community.
In Get Out, the Armitage family’s perception of the Black protagonist Chris is informed by primitive and sexualized stereotypes that bell hooks explores in the context of “imperialist nostalgia”. The party scene in the film shows a wide range of microaggression-ridden interactions between Chris and the White guests of his girlfriend’s family. For example, an elderly golfer assumes that Chris shares the same physical prowess as Tiger Woods, an accomplished Black athlete (Peele 00:42:59). The women at the party sexualize Chris by touching his arm to feel his muscles and asking intrusive questions about his sex life (Peele 00:43:30). hooks analyzes how these stereotypes of the primitive, exotic Other lead some White men to sexualize and fetishize women of color, viewing themselves as “explorers” and the women as conquests (hooks 24). hooks places this dynamic in a broader trend where “in mass culture, imperialist nostalgia takes the form of reenacting [...] the imperialist, colonizing journey as narrative fantasy of power and desire, of seduction by the Other” (hooks 25). The party scene in Get Out can be viewed using the same lens of imperialist nostalgia, except that the gender dynamic is reversed as Chris is sexualized by white women “conquering” someone seen as “primitive”. The guests ignore Chris’ artistic talent as a photographer, filtering their view based on stereotypes of Black people as hyper-sexualized and primitive rather than intellectual. This fuels white racial domination by the Armitages in Get Out by preventing the Other from assuming control of their own narrative.
	As Get Out progresses, Jordan Peele reveals the mechanisms by which the Armitage family takes control of Black bodies, which are metaphors for how Blackness appropriated by the white dominant group is hollowed out. During the party scene, the only Black guest, Logan, is presented as strange and alienating (Peele 00:45:08). Chris is relieved to see another Black guest at the party, calling him “brother” as he switches to their shared vernacular (Peele 00:45:08). However, Chris is unnerved when Logan does not understand any shared cultural context, such as fist bumps as a greeting. The film later reveals that Logan’s body is occupied by a White mind and psyche, which explains his strange behavior. Viewers realize that the Armitages are members of a white supremacist organization known as the Order of the Coagula, who transplant their brains into stolen Black bodies to join their “superior” White intellect with “superior” Black physique. This ideology reflects their stereotypical view that Black people lack intellectual ability as previously discussed. This horrific procedure serves as a metaphor for how cultural appropriation commodifies and hollows out Black culture. hooks’ central argument against consumption of the Other criticizes a type of cultural appropriation where culture is eaten or “consumed” by the white dominant narrative and an integral part of it is destroyed (hooks 21). Peele brings this concept to life by using the Coagula procedure as a surreal representation of a Black body literally hollowed out and divorced from the life and psyche of a Black person. Logan is an example of the dissonance that this results in, as his identity is stolen away and replaced by a White psyche. His fate symbolizes how the Armitages’ white racial domination removes context and specificity from Black life.
	Jordan Peele also develops a surreal metaphor for how Black voices are silenced when their identity and culture are hollowed out by cultural appropriation. This metaphor takes material form in Get Out as “The Sunken Place,” a subconscious realm that Chris enters when hypnotized by his girlfriend’s mother Missy. When she brings up his past trauma, he falls into a formless void where his screams are inaudible (Peele 00:35:20), representing the contrast between Chris’ helplessness and Missy's total control. Throughout Get Out, Peele places Chris in situations where he must smile helplessly when faced with racism, such as when Rose admits to hiding Chris’ race from her family (Peele 00:07:20) or when a policeman asks for his licence (Peele 00:12:30). These situations leave Chris unable to resist, a feeling which is crystallized in the metaphor of the Sunken Place. hooks contends that this invisibility is a common experience among people of color, as white supremacy fuels “dehumanizing oppressive forces [...] that render [Black people] invisible and deny [them] recognition” (hooks 35). Hypnosis alienates and estranges Chris from his body and control over his narrative, just as white racial domination leaves him and others of his community voiceless as hooks suggests. 
 Resistance in Get Out is rooted in subverting white supremacist stereotypes and reclaiming one’s narrative from commodification. When the Black community is commodified in the media, hooks contends that their “communities of resistance are replaced by communities of consumption” (hooks 33). hooks states that “to establish popular initiative, consumerism must be transcended” (hooks 34). Consumerism in Get Out is displayed when Dean Armitage auctions Chris off to an audience of White buyers (Peele 00:59:30). This is a form of consumerism where Black bodies are considered commodities and white supremacists are consumers. Through the auction scene, Peele draws a historical parallel between slavery and the modern-day commodification of Black people. Chris resists white racial domination by transcending consumerism as hooks suggests. Chris uses his ingenuity to escape the Sunken Place by picking cotton from the chair to block the hypnotic sound from reaching his ears (Peele 01:25:42), which symbolizes another historical parallel between cotton-picking slaves and Chris. However, Chris picks cotton to serve his own interests of liberation, unlike the slaves. This contrast represents how Chris transcends the consumerist nature of this labor by using it for his own escape. This scene also acknowledges the history of resistance among slaves and subverts the stereotype of non-intellectual Black people. Despite the harsh depiction of white supremacy in Get Out, Chris’ ingenuity and resistance demonstrate that Black people can subvert consumerism and achieve liberation.
In Get Out, resistance is also found in daily combat with white supremacist indoctrination through the wider Black community and meaningful signifiers of Black identity. Chris’ connections with other Black people help him escape by relying on the strength of the community. Logan, the possessed guest, in a brief moment of autonomy, warns Chris to “get out” (Peele 00:55:31). Finally, Chris is saved by the Black groundskeeper Walter and his TSA friend Rod, who “saves the day” and fills the role of a Black male hero (Peele 01:38:31), refuting the stereotype of Black men as predatory towards White women. Chris subverts this predatory stereotype through kindness and humanity when he tries to save the possessed housekeeper Georgina (Peele 01:35:05), reminded of his mother, even as she attempts to kill him. These elements allow Peele to subvert stereotypes that vilify Black people and instead show their importance in Chris’ escape and resistance against white supremacy as a whole. As hooks notes, the deep relevance of Chris’ Black identity as a “metaphor for freedom, an end to boundaries” (hooks 37) becomes apparent only once he reclaims it as an act of resistance.  
The body-snatching plot of Get Out symbolizes how Black life is hollowed out by white racial domination. The film combines graphic and social horror to demonstrate how cultural appropriation commodifies Blackness and black culture through stereotypes.  “Eating the Other” provides a framework to critically examine the often problematic portrayal of racial difference in media. Viewing Get Out through the lens of hooks’ ideas, we see that desire for the Other is not necessarily anti-racist and can fuel white racial domination by erasing vital context and resistance. Get Out encourages audiences to unite as communities against cultural appropriation and consumerism, and to subvert racist stereotypes. Rising interest in Others’ culture threatens the white supremacist notion of a homogenous culture, but we must acknowledge the struggle against racism to reach true cultural appreciation and liberation.