The first time I read the poem “Yellow Glove,” by Naomi Shihab Nye, I had absolutely no clue what it meant. I sat with my friends, puzzled, trying to extract any meaning I could from the strange story about a child losing a pair of gloves. I was absolutely lost until I read it for what must have been the eighth time, when some peculiar wording stuck with me. Instead of saying that she fed her cat, the narrator says that she “fattened the cat.” I remembered that a “fat cat” was a phrase used to describe a greedy capitalist that exploits others. I read through the poem once more, keeping themes of capitalism and exploitation in mind. I could feel a potential thesis about “Yellow Glove” right around the corner, but I was still having trouble connecting the seemingly meaningless parts of the text into a coherent argument. However, throughout my time in writ 1, meetings with my professor have greatly improved my ability to think critically about the text and develop meaningful insights[a][b], allowing me to construct an intriguing argument about the meaning of “Yellow Glove[c].”
I primarily learned[d] that giving seemingly poor interpretations a chance may actually lead to interesting analysis. When I first told Professor Su about my idea that “Yellow Glove” could be related to capitalism, I hadn’t even fully convinced myself of the idea. I was worried that it was too much of a stretch, and I was reading too deep into the details. However, Professor Su saw a lot of promise in the idea. He gave me the advice to not give up on a connection just because it seemed too far-fetched. He told me to continue to just write down every idea I had no matter how “dumb” it sounded. I took his advice, and pretty soon, I started to feel like my idea was not so far-fetched after all. I had a decent amount of evidence to support my argument, and I was even starting to convince myself a little bit[e]. Throughout the writing process, I kept this advice in mind. In my original outline, I argued that, “The glove is yellow, signifying the idea that to move up in society will bring one joy and happiness.” This argument using just the color alone is pretty weak -- I wasn’t even sure that the color of the glove even carried any important meaning. However, instead of ditching the idea and never mentioning color in my essay, I read through the poem again and wrote down anything that seemed to relate. Later in the poem, Nye mentions that the glove was “muddy,” which, to me, seems like the opposite of the original color of the yellow glove. By the time I got to my third draft, I wrote, “The glove is also ‘a muddy survivor’ when it finally returns to Nye, which provides a stark contrast to the original yellow color of the gloves (18). This mirrors how the hope of wealth is no longer bright and optimistic to Nye like it once was, but instead dull and unpromising.” By not giving up on the seemingly poor connection to the color of the gloves, I was able to find more evidence and produce an interesting argument that is reasonably convincing.[f]
I also learned that by asking questions, I could find new insights about the text that don’t jump out right away. [g]When I originally presented my outline to Professor Su, I was only focusing on the symbolism of two elements in the poem: the stream and the yellow glove (CITE FIRST OUTLINE). The first question he asked me was, “What do you think the narrator’s mother represents?” I hadn’t even considered that the mother could represent something. [h]I thought about it for about a week, reading and rereading the poem, before coming to the conclusion that the mother could represent societal expectations placed on the lower class. In our next meeting, Professor Su agreed with me that this conclusion added insight into the poem and provided a lot of evidence for my argument, so I started to think about other questions I could ask to strengthen my essay. I asked myself, “Why does the glove appear almost magically at the end of the poem?” This was something I didn’t address at all in my first draft. After thinking about it, I added in my third draft, “What’s more, the glove has appeared almost magically; she never actively searched for it. This highlights that the main factor influencing class mobility is actually chance rather than merit.” This addition actually tied back directly to my thesis, ultimately making my essay more cohesive.
        Writ 1 taught me how to be persistent and tug at seemingly unconvincing arguments, as well as ask questions about the text. By building up these skill sets, I was able to make significant progress in analyzing text to find meaningful implications, as shown through the evolution of my essay on “Yellow Glove.” With this improvement, I feel like I am starting to build up the skillset to think critically about subtleties in all aspects of life, whether I am trying to solve a logic puzzle or learn about a rising political issue.
