Reflecting on Representation in Media
Authentic and diverse representation in media has always been close to my heart. As a queer person of color, I struggle to find characters who share my intersectional identity represented in mass media. Living in India, I often sought out media that I believed represented American society. Watching Jordan Peele’s film Get Out in this class showed me a deeper layer of commentary on race, leading me to question my previous ideas on representation. I now view mass media differently after this class exposed me to an anti-racist theoretical framework from bell hooks’ essay “Eating the Other”, helping me to formulate arguments relating to race and popular culture. As I engaged with these deeper ideas, my writing developed from summary to critical analysis of evidence. Lastly, I learned how to express these ideas concisely by removing ‘purple prose’, defined as overly ornate writing that detracts from the argument by drawing attention to itself.  My new understanding of mass media viewed through an anti-racist lens helped me critically analyze rather than summarize evidence, and only then could I fine-tune my writing with regards to concision.
Analyzing Get Out and “Eating the Other” led me to critically evaluate the portrayal of race in mainstream media, rather than accept it as an accurate representation at face value. In particular, “Eating the Other” provided me with a framework to distinguish between benign cultural appreciation and harmful cultural appropriation, as I mention in the title of my main essay (Subramanian, 19/09/2021, 1). This text also provided me with background knowledge and vocabulary to make focused claims about representations of racial difference in mass media. While writing the main essay on this subject, I also learned how to apply these ideas from “Eating the Other” to new texts such as the film Get Out. For example, hooks’ ideas helped me view Get Out as a social thriller addressing racism rather than a violent horror film as it may superficially resemble. I hope to apply the same ideas to other texts in the future and thus gain a better understanding of the operations of race in popular culture.
Once I engaged with the texts, I learned how to structure and analyze my evidence. In my first draft, I utilized a structure wherein I described significant scenes in Get Out and then discussed related concepts in “Eating the Other” in two separate paragraphs. While this layout helped me put my thoughts to paper, it leaned heavily towards summary and discussed the texts in isolation. For example, I used topic sentences that described only “Eating the Other” to discuss “how members of minority groups can rely on the strength of their communities to resist” (Subramanian, 19/09/2021, 4). Prof. Dadabhoy criticized these “summary paragraphs on hooks” and suggested that I discuss hooks before my analysis of Peele’s film (Dadabhoy 06/10/2021). I rectified this error by changing the structure of the second draft. I synthesized evidence from Get Out and “Eating the Other” in single paragraphs which explored arguments about Get Out specifically. (Subramanian, 08/10/2021, 5) I learned that in academic writing, one should not keep evidence in large summarical blocks, and instead intersperse it with analysis and connections with other texts.
Once I finalized a cohesive structure for my essay, I was able to polish my prose using concision techniques. Before the WRIT001 writing process, I had a tendency to add more ‘weight’ to the concluding sentences of paragraphs using constructions such as “this is evident in” or “we notice that” (Subramanian, 19/09/2021, 3), which are nothing but ‘purple prose’. Furthermore, the subjects of these sentences were separate from the characters. Using suggestions from Williams (25), I replaced the word “it” as the character and instead merged the character with the subject. While my claims and evidence comprise the bulk of my essay, prose and concision were the final pieces of the puzzle to improve my writing. 
During this course, I have developed my skills both in interpreting texts and delivering lucid arguments about them. I have gained a deeper understanding of the operations of race in popular culture, which I can apply to future media I will consume. Feedback from my professors also improved how I deploy evidence and taught me to avoid embellished writing. As I resettle into this country, this course has given me a deeper understanding of systemic issues in America and the ability to write lucidly and meaningfully on them.
