Interracial relationships often symbolize love beyond the boundaries of race, eliminating the importance of racial identity. Thus, interracial relationships seem to suggest America is a post-racial society. However, Black feminist scholar bell hooks in her essay “Eating the Other” (1992), describes the white desire for the non-white racialized “Other” in interracial relationships as a front, under which White people commodify and exploit the Other. Similar themes are investigated in Jordan Peele’s horror film Get Out (2017), which explores the white supremacist desire to exploit black bodies. Rose Armitage, a White woman, invites her boyfriend Chris Washington, a Black man, to meet her parents for the weekend. Eventually, Chris discovers that Rose is luring him into her family’s body snatching scheme in which white people’s brains, identities, and personalities are transplanted into the bodies of the Black people that they kidnap, representing the white supremacist desire to exploit the black body. Overt racism is shown through the men in the Armitage family, who use physical strength to exert their dominance over Chris. At the same time, covert racism is shown through the women in the family, who use gaslighting and hypnosis to manipulate Chris psychologically. In our society, White women are often overlooked agents in perpetuating white supremacy because their methods of racial domination seem more subtle, despite their consequences being just as severe. This paper uses bell hooks’ analysis of interracial relationships to argue that White women in Get Out leverage the fantasy of a post-racial America to actively uphold white supremacy.  
Rose seems equal to Chris due to their romantic involvement but demonstrates her white power when she leverages white innocence at Chris’s expense. During an encounter with the police, Rose plays the role of a socially conscious White woman who is protecting her Black boyfriend from racial profiling, claiming, “I’m not going to let anyone fuck with my man” (Peele 00:13:27). Her romantic relationship with Chris is what makes it seem as if they are on equal footing to the police. This idea is reaffirmed by hooks, who states that “fucking was a way to confront the Other, as well as a way to make themselves over, to leave behind white ‘innocence’ and enter the world of ‘experience’” (hooks 23). This expectation that White people lose their “innocence” when they become sexually involved with the “Other” contributes to the front that Rose is equal to Chris. However, hooks explains that the black body “was seen as existing to serve the ends of white male desires,” or in this case, white female desire (hooks 24). Chris’s body is being used for Rose’s ulterior motives, which shows that their seemingly post-racial relationship is a fantasy. In this example, although it seems as though Rose was resisting the police to protect Chris, this was all performative ¬ – Rose was using this assumption to protect herself while putting Chris in danger, since he could face severe, potentially fatal consequences for not complying with the police as a Black man in America. Rose was ultimately motivated to serve her best interest, which is to hide the paper trail leading to her family’s scheme. Rose has the privilege to defy the police when it serves her best interests, showing how she leverages her white innocence. 
Another example of Rose’s white innocence is at the end of Get Out when Chris tries to strangle Rose after she tries to shoot him. Rose says, “Chris, I’m so sorry. It’s me. I love you” (Peele 01:37:09). As soon as the police car rolls up, Rose immediately paints herself as the victim, yelling “Help! Help! Help me!” (Peele 01:38:17). Immediately after her interests change, she leverages her white innocence to save herself and get Chris arrested. She assumes that she will be identified as innocent because she is a White woman getting attacked by a Black man. Chris is also conscious of this, as he immediately stands and put his hands up (Peele 01:38:19). If it had not been Chris’s friend Rod in that police car, Rose would have been saved at the cost of Chris. This scene shows how fake their seemingly post-racial relationship was in the beginning, and how Rose is not the innocent white woman she made herself out to seem. Rose leverages her racial dominance over Chris by capitalizing on her white innocence, thereby upholding white supremacy.
Rose holds the power in her relationship with Chris because she silences him and instead focuses on herself. For example, after Chris had dinner with the Armitage family, Rose pretends to blame herself for her family’s racism towards Chris, directing him to reaffirm that she is indeed a progressive, innocent White woman. In this scene, Rose begs, “But I am sorry…” (Peele 00:27:10). Chris immediately responds, “No, no, no, come here,” motioning Rose into his embrace (Peele 00:27:12). Rose frames herself as the one that needs comforting – recentering a moment that should be about Chris’s struggle around her own. Racial power is prevalent within individual interracial relationships, as hooks says, “simply by expressing their desire for “intimate” contact with Black people, White people do not eradicate the politics of racial domination as they are made manifest in personal interaction” (hooks 28). This shows that romantic interaction does not erase the role of racial power. Between Rose and Chris, this is displayed each time Chris ends a conversation with “it’s fine,” or “it’s not a big deal”, showing how he cannot fully express himself to Rose because he does not discuss his true feelings to her (Peele 00:41:53). This silencing by Rose escalates as Chris attempts to articulate his uneasiness about the Armitage house and Rose plays down his paranoia. Although it seems as if Rose and Chris’s interracial relationship supports the post-racial fantasy, Rose has the power in deciding who has a voice in their relationship, showing how she maintains her power and preserves white supremacy.
The other powerful White woman in the Armitage family is Rose’s mother, Missy, who exerts her white power over Chris through hypnosis, which is a seemingly inconsequential. During the scene from Get Out where Missy forcibly hypnotizes Chris, Missy sits across from Chris as she stirs her teacup. From an observer at the door, this scene could seem as though Missy and Chris were having a casual conversation. This is because Missy uses a common action to quietly hypnotize him: stirring her teacup. Peele demonstrates that this is no casual conversation by transporting us into Chris’s mind. Through her hypnosis, Missy sends Chris to the “sunken place,” which is shown by Chris falling into a black hole, screaming but with no sound escaping from his lips (Peele 00:36:39). This represents the silencing of black voices by the structures of white supremacy. Missy takes advantage of this during the hypnosis when she forces Chris to express his childhood trauma without his consent. Chris is especially vulnerable in this moment because he has not been able to express his pain as a Black male in American society. This inability is explained by hooks, who describes how Black men “do not have a public discourse or audience within racist society that enables them to give their pain a hearing” (hooks 34). Just as Missy’s hypnosis was concealed by the teacup, this silencing of Black people through microaggressions and everyday forms of racism is also concealed, despite it being just as oppressive to Black people. Missy exploits Chris’s pain to control him through a seemingly post-racial interaction, which is a more disguised yet equally consequential method of upholding white supremacy.  
Near the end of Get Out, Rose sits in pristine white clothing, perched in front of framed pictures of past victims. She gently sips her milk while eating fruit loops in a separate bowl, preventing the color of the cereal from polluting the whiteness of the milk. This scene shows that Rose is obsessed with sustaining the purity of whiteness and that the appearance of a post-racial society was fake. The seemingly liberal White woman who crafts a post-racial fantasy is thereby erasing the importance of acknowledging the history and accountability that comes with race relations in America. They are active in upholding racist power structures because they do not recognize their elevated position of power in the first place. To begin dismantling racism, we must recognize that nobody is innocent and take responsibility for our part in upholding white supremacy.
